feat(blog): A tutorial on how to create a lightbox using gatsby-image and @reach/dialog (#9684)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/blog/2018-11-03-building-an-accessible-lightbox/index.md

```js
import React, { Component } from "react"
import PropTypes from "prop-types"
import Img from "gatsby-image"

export default class Lightbox extends Component {
  static propTypes = {
    carImages: PropTypes.array.isRequired,
  }

  render() {
    const { carImages } = this.props
    return (
      <div>
        {carImages.map(image => (
          <Img
            key={image.node.childImageSharp.fluid.src}
            fluid={image.node.childImageSharp.fluid}
          />
        ))}
      </div>
    )
  }
}
```

By now, we should have all the images displaying on the home page and doing a fade-up load.

### Styled Components

For styling, we're going to be using [styled-components](https://www.styled-components.com/). To get it configured with Gatsby, run the following inside your terminal in our application:

```terminal
$ yarn add gatsby-plugin-styled-components styled-components babel-plugin-styled-components
```

And add the following to `gatsby-config.js`:

```js
module.exports = {
  /* existing config */
  plugins: [
    `gatsby-plugin-styled-components`,
    /* existing plugins */
  ],
}
```

> Now, for the sake of consistency, lets restart the application. Now, we'll create a simple `LightboxContainer` styled component to wrap our images in. Your `lightbox.js` component should look like this now:

Reviewer: Just for the sake of consistency?

Author: @shannonbux Hey Shannon, thanks so much for your feedback and suggestions. I've updated the blog accordingly. Hopefully I didn't miss anything 😅Sorry in advance if I did!

---
title: "Building a custom, accessible image lightbox"
date: 2018-11-03
author: "Sergiy Dybskiy"
tags: ["lightbox", "gatsby-image", "accessibility"]
canonicalLink: "https://416serg.me/building-a-custom-accessible-image-lightbox-in-gatsbyjs"
---

In this tutorial we're going to cover the steps to creating a simple, custom, accessible image lightbox inside a [GatsbyJS](/) application. You can check out the finished example is on [Github](https://github.com/416serg/GatsbyLightbox) ([Demo](https://gatsbylightboxv2.416serg.me/)) or continue reading to dive right into the magic.

## First

> GatsbyJS is a blazingly fast static site generator that uses React. It has an amazing team behind it and is constantly evolving to be the go-to tool for your blog, e-commerce site, front-end of your application or anything you can think of. Not convinced? Check out their [showcase](/showcase/) to see how companies like Nike are using GatsbyJS to build awesome websites.

Reviewer 2: We can probably skip this section since it will appear on the Gatsby blog.

  plugins: [
    `gatsby-plugin-styled-components`,
    /* existing plugins */
  ],
}
```

Now, for the sake of consistency, lets restart the application. Now, we'll create a simple `LightboxContainer` styled component to wrap our images in. Your `lightbox.js` component should look like this now:

```js
import React, { Component } from "react"
import PropTypes from "prop-types"
import Img from "gatsby-image"
import styled from "styled-components"

const LightboxContainer = styled.div`
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(5, 1fr);
  grid-gap: 5px;
`

export default class Lightbox extends Component {
  static propTypes = {
    carImages: PropTypes.array.isRequired, // eslint-disable-line
  }

  static state = {
    open: false,
  }

  render() {
    const { carImages } = this.props
    return (
      <LightboxContainer>
        {carImages.map(image => (
          <Img
            key={image.node.childImageSharp.fluid.src}
            fluid={image.node.childImageSharp.fluid}
          />
        ))}
      </LightboxContainer>
    )
  }
}
```

Now the page should look something like this:

![Displaying images on the home page](/screen-3.png)

### Creating the Lightbox

> For the sake of accessibility, we'll be using [Dialog](https://ui.reach.tech/dialog) from Reach UI - shout out to [Ryan Florence](https://github.com/ryanflorence) for making awesome, accessible tools for React. PS, Gatsby's router is using `@reach/router` under the hood, so we're keeping it in the family 😉

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the sake of accessibility, we'll be using [Dialog](https://ui.reach.tech/dialog) from Reach UI - shout out to [Ryan Florence](https://github.com/ryanflorence) for making awesome, accessible tools for React. As a side note, Gatsby's router is using [`@reach/router`](https://reach.tech/router) under the hood, so we're keeping it in the family 😉
```

  }

  render() {
    const { carImages } = this.props
    const { selectedImage, showLightbox } = this.state
    return (
      <Fragment>
        <LightboxContainer>
          {carImages.map(image => (
            <PreviewButton
              key={image.node.childImageSharp.fluid.src}
              type="button"
              onClick={() =>
                this.setState({ showLightbox: true, selectedImage: image })
              }
            >
              <Img fluid={image.node.childImageSharp.fluid} />
            </PreviewButton>
          ))}
        </LightboxContainer>
        {showLightbox && (
          <Dialog>
            <Img fluid={selectedImage.node.childImageSharp.fluid} />
            <button
              type="button"
              onClick={() => this.setState({ showLightbox: false })}
            >
              Close
            </button>
          </Dialog>
        )}
      </Fragment>
    )
  }
}
```

Now, if you click on one of the images, it should look something like this:

![Final Lightbox](/screen-1.png)

Now you can go ahead and implement this in your e-commerce store, picture gallery, or anywhere else you might see fit 😃

Thank you for your time,

> Serg

Reviewer 2: Let's drop the sign-off here, but definitely keep the "tweet at me" section.
